PagingTutorial/README.md, before:

# Paging Tutorial
This is an experimental Android/Java project to learn Recycler Views
with Paging. The initial version was started with [Belal Khan's youtube
videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eh4Wq7UrTok&list=PLk7v1Z2rk4hjCQw1RVoYPRdeIzwdz5_Fi).
I have added a Markdown plugin to AS, too. The project was created with
AS, but I added this README.md manually later to make the project ok for
GitHub. When I checked before committing the files generated by AS, I
found that a JAR file Gradle wrapper is to be added. I was wondering, if
this JAR is really to be added to the GitHub repository, so I found a
page
[Understanding the Gradle Wrapper](https://medium.com/@bherbst/understanding-the-gradle-wrapper-a62f35662ab7)
which wrote "You should make sure all these are committed to version
control. They are all small, system-independent, and critical to using
the Gradle Wrapper."

## Dependencies
[Retrofit](https://square.github.io/retrofit/) v 2.6.0 
[Glide](https://github.com/bumptech/glide) 4.9.0

Commit message:

Stack Exchange API added and tested.

PagingTutorial/README.md, after:

# Paging Tutorial
This is an experimental Android/Java project to learn Recycler Views
with Paging. The initial version was started with [Belal Khan's youtube
videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eh4Wq7UrTok&list=PLk7v1Z2rk4hjCQw1RVoYPRdeIzwdz5_Fi).
The application is a gentle introduction to the StackExchange API used as a data source with Retrofit as an HTTP client and Glide as an image retrieval function.

I have added a Markdown plugin to AS, too. The project was created with
AS, but I added this README.md manually later to make the project ok for
GitHub. When I checked before committing the files generated by AS, I
found that a JAR file Gradle wrapper is to be added. I was wondering, if
this JAR is really to be added to the GitHub repository, so I found a
page
[Understanding the Gradle Wrapper](https://medium.com/@bherbst/understanding-the-gradle-wrapper-a62f35662ab7)
which wrote "You should make sure all these are committed to version
control. They are all small, system-independent, and critical to using
the Gradle Wrapper."

# Dependencies
[Retrofit](https://square.github.io/retrofit/) v 2.6.0 

[Glide](https://github.com/bumptech/glide) 4.9.0

# StackExchange API
[Answers API Documentation](http://api.stackexchange.com/docs/answers) has a Try It section which gives complete documentation on using the API and the response.

IStackExchangeAPI, StackExchangeAnswers and StackExchangeClient (using REtrofit) were added.
Internet permission added to AndroidManifest.xml
callStackExchange added to MainActivity
Remember to restart emulater when you have no internet error on the virtual device.
More or less I followed the instruction from video [#2 Android Paging Library Tutorial - Backend API](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sCfq8yAd_CA&list=PLk7v1Z2rk4hjCQw1RVoYPRdeIzwdz5_Fi&index=2) 
and I tested the application both in emulator and on my Note 8.
This Retrofit is really greate and easy to use.
